# Solver C++ Code Generation Tools
C++ code generation tools for CPU or FPGA simulation solvers for electrical and power electronic systems

Utilizing these tools and FPGA High-Level Synthesis (HLS) tools, real-time simulation solvers of sizable power electronic systems executing on FPGA devices with 35ns simulation time steps are feasible.

Solvers generated by the tools utilize the Latency Based Linear Multi-step Compound (LB-LMC) simulation method to solve system models.

The tools include the LB-LMC C++ Solver Code Generation C++ Library along with a Command Line Interface (CLI) executable to allow creation of simulation solvers via either C++ programming or command shell environments.

## Requirements

These tools requires C++14 or higher to build.  Solvers generated by the tools are C++03 complaint.

Besides the C++ standard library, the tools depend on the following third-party libaries to compile:

  * Eigen 3 -- Linear Algebra Template Library
http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/

## License

Solver C++ Code Generation Tools are licensed under the GNU General Public License (GPL) v3.0 (https://www.gnu.org/licenses/).

## Literature 
  
The code generation tools were first presented in:
* M. Milton and A. Benigni, "Software and Synthesis Development Libraries for Power Electronic System Real-Time Simulation," *2019 IEEE Electric Ship Technologies Symposium (ESTS)*, Arlington VA, 2019, pp. 368-376, Aug. 2019.
doi: 10.1109/ESTS.2019.8847940
url: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8847940
  
The LB-LMC simulation solver algorithm applied in generated solvers was first proposed in:  
 * A. Benigni and A. Monti, "A Parallel Approach to Real-Time Simulation of Power Electronics Systems," in *IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics*, vol. 30, no. 9, pp. 5192-5206, Sept. 2015.
doi: 10.1109/TPEL.2014.2361868

FPGA execution of this algorithm is demonstrated in the following papers:  
 * Milton, M. A.(2016). *A Comparison Of FPGA Implementation Of Latency-Based Solvers For Power Electronic System Real-Time Simulation*. (Master's thesis). Retrieved from https://scholarcommons.sc.edu/etd/3903

 * M. Milton, A. Benigni and J. Bakos, "System-Level, FPGA-Based, Real-Time Simulation of Ship Power Systems," in *IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion*, vol. 32, no. 2, pp. 737-747, June 2017.
doi: 10.1109/TEC.2017.2692525

 * M. Difronzo, M. Milton, M. Davidson and A. Benigni, "Hardware-in-the-loop testing of high switching frequency power electronics converters," *2017 IEEE Electric Ship Technologies Symposium (ESTS)*, Arlington, VA, 2017, pp. 299-304.
doi: 10.1109/ESTS.2017.8069297

